# [Back](https://github.com/TopDeveloper29/UPrompt/blob/Prod/README.md) | UPrompt Basic


In this section, you will learn how program work at it startup and how use it, how write the first XML line to create your page and how the program transform the XML in a UI.

## Program start-up logic
The first thing to know is how the program starts. First, it will check if you pass an argument to it and then take action if applicable. The next step is to check if **MainPage.xml** exists at the program root. For example, if **UPrompt.exe** is located in **C:\TEMP**, it will test if **C:\TEMP\MainPage.xml** exists. If it does, it will load it as the displayed page in UPrompt. If it doesn't exist, it will load the UDesigner page located under **C:\TEMP\Resources\Code\UDesigner.xml**. This page is designed to help you build your own XML UI by providing a list of all built-in elements and their related XML code along with descriptions that you can easily copy.

## XML basic structure
The first thing you need to know to get started creating your own page is how to structure the XML document. Here's a simple example:

```xml
<Application>
	<Setting Name="Width" Value="700"/>
	<Setting Name="Height" Value="600"/>
	<View>
		<ViewItem Type="Title">Welcome to UPrompt</ViewItem>
		<ViewItem Type="Row">
			<ViewInput Type="TextBox" Id="TextBox1">{USER}</ViewInput>
			<ViewInput Type="TextBox" Action="SetVariable" Argument="NewVar2,[TextBox2]" Id="TextBox2">{DEVICE}</ViewInput>
		</ViewItem>
		<ViewAction Type="Button" Action="EXIT=0">Exit</ViewAction>
	</View>
</Application>
```

As you can see, the root element should always be `Application`. Next is the `Setting` element, which always comes under the `Application` node and is used to configure application-wide settings such as startup width and height, as shown in the example. It can also be used for various other behaviors like extension declaration or specifying the color of the background and text. The `View` element is the main element that holds all other UI elements such as `ViewItem`, `ViewInput`, `ViewAction`, and HTML/CSS elements. You cannot add multiple `View` elements to a page.

> Under the `View` element, you can directly write HTML and CSS. However, it may be harder to write HTML instead of using the built-in XML elements because you must respect a certain format in Name/Id to allow UPrompt to run actions with the HTML element. If you are interested in creating a page using HTML or creating one element using HTML, please refer to the "Use HTML in View" section.

## How the program works in the back-end
Now that you know the basics of writing your own page, you probably want to understand how UPrompt works in the back-end to better understand some behaviors when using the application.

UPrompt works with XML front-end, which allows you to quickly configure application settings and create UI. Note that the sub-elements under `View` will be converted into **HTML**, and `Setting` will call internal functions. Secondly, it works with *HTML*, *CSS*, and *JS* in the back-end to display the page. Finally, it uses internal functions and external files such as **DLL (C#)** and **PS1 (PowerShell)** to interact with the application or the machine.

In essence, you can think of UPrompt as a web browser for local files located in **[Application Directory]\Resources\Code\UView.html**. By default, this file is empty and is generated from **[Application Directory]\Resources\Code\UTemplate.html** and **[Application Directory]\Resources\Code\UTemplate.css**. Please note that these files are not designed to be modified. For example, if you want to add **CSS**, you can do so by linking your own file using a `Setting`. The only time you may want to modify the **HTML** template file is to add a custom default *Header* or *Footer* to all your pages or if you are creating a custom element in **HTML** and want to add some **JS** to handle it. If you want to proceed, please note that all **XML** and/or **HTML** written in page file (XML) under the `View` node will be placed in the following form (inside **[Application Directory]\Resources\Code\UTemplate.html**) :

```html
<form Id="UForm" action="UView.html" method="POST" class="root">
    === XML CODE WILL GENERATE THIS VIEW ===
</form>
```

UPrompt will replace the text **=== XML CODE WILL GENERATE THIS VIEW ===** with the proper **HTML** code (that may be generated by the **XML** code). If you want to create a header, put your code above it, and for a footer, put it below it.

If you are looking for information on how to create extensions in C# (DLL) or how to use PowerShell scripts as extensions, please refer to the "Extension and Code" section.

## Arguments
You can start application in specific mode or load a page instead of using the default MainPage.xml or Designer
|  Long Name  |  Short Name  |  Description  |
|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| /path | /p  | This allow you to load a xml page by giving it path. Note if you pass directly a xml path as argument it will do the same. Exemple: `Uprompt.exe /path "MyPage.xml"` will do the same as `Uprompt.exe "MyPage.xml"`  |
| /designer  |  /d  | This will force the application to open in designer mode whatever if a MainPage.xml exist or not |


------------
#### Related Page
- [Setting](https://github.com/TopDeveloper29/UPrompt/blob/Prod/Documentation/Setting.md)
- [View](https://github.com/TopDeveloper29/UPrompt/blob/Prod/Documentation/View.md)
	- [ViewItem](https://github.com/TopDeveloper29/UPrompt/blob/Prod/Documentation/View.md#viewitem)
	- [ViewInput](https://github.com/TopDeveloper29/UPrompt/blob/Prod/Documentation/View.md#viewinput)
	- [ViewAction](https://github.com/TopDeveloper29/UPrompt/blob/Prod/Documentation/View.md#viewaction)
 	- [Html](https://github.com/TopDeveloper29/UPrompt/blob/Prod/Documentation/View.md#html)
- [Extention](https://github.com/TopDeveloper29/UPrompt/blob/Prod/Documentation/Setting.md)

